---
title: 'ŚHRĪ BUDDHA in the Words of ŚHRĪ MĀTĀJĪ'
date: 2023-07-14
permalink: /quotes/2023/0714
tags:
  - crimson @ Shri Buddha
  - hotpink @ Disciple Principle
---

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"This is the experience Buddha received under the boddhi tree but you are not the Buddha."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1900-0000 Quote on Śhrī Buddha from the book The Third Advent by Grégoire de Kalbermatten, Page 98</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Look at this, 'We do not know Buddha. We do not know Muhammad. We have not seen Them. We do not know Mahāvīra. We do not know anyone [of Them]. Who gave us Self-realization? Śhrī Mātājī. That we were able to know because of Śhrī Mātājī.' "</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1900-0000 Quote on Progress and Global Task from the book Sahaja Yoga, An Experiential Treatise (Sahaja Yoga Anubhavāche Bola) by Venu Narayan Phaḍake, Chapter 13, Page 169</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">[Śhrī Vishnu incarnated in several forms from that of a fish to the state of Buddha Avatār and uplifted that form and this led to the human being.]</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1900-0000 The Story of Creation (Marathi), House of Śhrī Mātājī, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"It is true that the field of human thought and action before realisation is a field of force, of tension which is generated by the bipolarity of the sun and the moon line. But, within this field of contradiction, the balanced people always look for the synthesis which will bring them closer to the Central path. <font color="red">This [is] the eight fold path described by Lord Buddha.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1902-0000 Handwritten Note Eight Fold Path related to The Book of Ādi Śhakti, Chapter 10</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"In the process of bettering his reflectors, he created the human being. And man alone in the entire known creation was gifted with a free moral will and a sense of discretion. Perhaps that the only way, after the ape stage, he could go further with the progress of evolution. It is thus that the human beings constitute the best reflectors of the Creator. <font color="red">Some of them as sages, like Lord Buddha, Jesus Christ, Lord Mahavir, mark the destination of human progress,</font> others as scientist discover the mighty forces of creation which are being constantly harnessed in the service of man. Similarly, some others gifted with extraordinary faculties of perception and understanding play the role of "Artists". They have not only an extra-ordinary "eye" but also an ability to communicate with others through the medium of art. They have an extremely sensitive heart and an equally eloquent medium by which they can touch the hearts of their fellowmen. This factor assumes a social importance and thus an artist plays a vital role, as member of a society."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1961-1000 Article 'Art Culture and Artist' published in the souvenir 'Dignity of Art' brought out to commemorate the Inauguration of the 'Youth Society For Films' by the Union Home Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on 1961-1008, the function presided over by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Y. B. Chevam, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Even [a] person like Buddha, He went round the whole world, did all sorts of renunciations and all that, ultimately He got tired. And when He was lying at the feet of a tree, in that relaxed condition, the All-pervading Mother, Holy Mother, just poured Her blessings on Him and He got Realization."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-0324 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, The Jet Age, Seminar, Day 2, Cowasji Jehangir Hall, 15, Madam Cama Road, Mantralaya, Fort, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"The essence of whatever has been described in all the religion is only one and is 'to know thyself' and to know this there is only one way that is Sahaja Yoga which may be called as spontaneous growth what happen spontaneously.<br>
<font color="red">Buddha only got it from Sahaja Yoga. He was wandering thousands of places here and there and one day while he was laying, getting tired, His Kuṇḍalinī said that, 'My son is too much tired, somehow to give Him Realization.' That very moment the rays came down to His head and stopped and from below the Kuṇḍalinī strike down His Sahasrāra and got His Realization.</font><br>
Nobody has ever got Realization without Sahaja Yoga."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-1117 Public Program (Hindi), Day 1, 4 Duplex Lane, New Delhi, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Lot of work was done to cross the Void, some success was achieved. And if you people could get it, They are helpful today. They become eternal. The founder of Jaina Dharma, Śhrī Mahāvīra and Śhrī Buddha are amongst Them. They were born of the same Mother, born of the womb of Ādi Śhakti. Try to know Their first relation that where were They born. But it was experimental for all of Them. All of Them made experiments so that human beings could cross the Void. Very few, however, could cross the Void."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-1125 Public Program (Hindi), Day 7, Pāne ke Bāda: Sāta Chakroṃ ke Devatā (After Getting It: Deities of the Seven Chakras), 4 Duplex Lane, New Delhi, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"Now, what can I say, you would be surprised, that the Shia sect that started after Muhammad Sāhab, His daughter was Fāṭimah, She was also Ādi Śhakti.<br>
<font color="red">And Her two children were, Hasan and Husayn, back then, when They saw even after the annihilation of the world, the human beings did not understand, then They were born as Buddha and Mahāvīra and They brought the non-violence as religion, and attempted that, 'Maybe with the establishment of non-violence people will achieve Self-realization.' But couldn't do it.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-1208 Public Program (Hindi), Day 2, Biralā Krīṛā Keṃdra, Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"Shia word has been derived from Siyā. The word which come from Siyā became Shia &#8211; Siyā means Sītājī. If you go to UP [Uttar Pradesh, India] then nobody says Sītājī, they say Siyājī, 'Siyā var Rām[a]chandra ki jay.' Everyone takes the name Siyā. She was Sītājī, Ādi Śhakti Herself.<br>
<font color="red">And Her two sons, who were Hasan and Husayn, destroyed many evils. When They ultimately died after getting tried, then in the next birth they thought of establishment of nonviolence, violence led them nowhere.<br>
They were [re]born as Mahāvīr and Buddha to make a new experiment. Experiments do happen.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-1209 Public Program (Hindi), Day 3, Śhrī Dattātreya Jayanti, Biralā Krīṛā Keṃdra, Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"You seek: first you seek in money, then in power. If in this birth any person has abundant money, then in next birth he will say, 'I do not want money, make me a minister somewhere.' Then he will seek in power. If he has not found it in power then he will seek in religion. But all of his seeking is done from outside.<br>
<font color="red">The moment he is tired of all his seeking, like Buddha also, who was tired from all corners and He laid down getting exhausted [and thought], 'No, I am not going to find it in this way. I did not get it in what I was seeking.' The moment He got tired, the very moment He was blessed and He ultimately found it. He too got it from Sahaja Yoga itself and all the Big Gurus of this world too have got it from Sahaja Yoga, everyone had achieved it through Sahaja Yoga.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1973-1219 Public Program (Hindi), Nagpur, Maharashtra, India (other date 1222)</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"And His daughter Fāṭimah was nobody else but Sītā Jānakī Herself.<br>
<font color="red">And Her two sons, Hasan and Husayn, were nobody else but Lava and Kuśha. They were born again and again: They were born as Mahāvīra and Buddha, and then They were born as Hasan and Husayn.</font><br>
It is only possible through Sahaja Yoga to realize that this is the Truth, this is the fact."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1976-0205 Public Program (Vasant Pañchamī), Day 2, Description of Kuṇḍalinī, after Śhrī Viṣhnu Havan, New Delhi, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"Those who go to the extremes of things are also no good for Sahaja Yoga.<br>
<font color="red">Extreme takes you away from reality which was said by Gautam Buddha. He said, "Take to the mid... middle path. Keep to d... to the middle path." But His disciples have gone to the extreme path, of foolishness. He said, "Don't worship any Gods or Goddesses," at that time, because He was in Sahaja. So, His disciples started worshipping His tooth, nail, everything.</font><br>
Of course, that too has a meaning. But not for people who are not realized."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1976-0319 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, It Is a Spontaneous Growth of Your Being into that Infinite Realm of God's Grace and The Articulation of Your Personality, Seminar, Day 1, Session 2 (evening), Cowasji Jehangir Hall, 15, Madam Cama Rd, Mantralaya, Fort, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"So what must we do?<br>
<font color="red">The human beings have to come to the state of Gautama who became the Buddha. He searched in all earnestness and honesty. He gave up first all fake worldly preoccupations. This is not required but when he gave up all hopes of searching, (the occupation of the mind), he accepted his defeat. He felt tired and fell at the feet of the Holy Ghost.<br>
Buddha had dharma. His body was clean, His mind, the attention, did not find any joy in the worldly greed or desire. His cup was ready and it emptied when he was tired and surrendered and that was the moment: like torrential rain, the "Shakti" filled His cup and made Him the "Shakta", the Enlightened One.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1976-1012 Letter to Grégoire de Kalbermatten about Dharma (also Pyramids and Tāj Mahal), London, UK</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Such born realized people: this is a very, very far-fetched stuff; they are very few.<br>
I would say perhaps Buddha and Mahāvīra are the only two human beings who have gone through many lives. From one extreme to another They went and ultimately They found out that going to the extremes is not proper. Still They have not reached the complete height of an Incarnation."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1977-0126 Talk to Sahaja Yogis (28th Republic Day), Day 1, Questions on Chakras, Bordi, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Now, beyond that is God's Realization.<br>
There are three stages to that also, but just now I have told this: the Sat-chit-ānand State.<br>
The God's Realization is the state in which Gautam Buddha and Mahāvīra only rose, and They are settled down here in our brains, both of Them are here, Christ is here.<br>
And these two were not Incarnations: They were born as human beings. They were born to Sītā, as Lav and Kuśh. Then they were born as Buddha and Mahāvīra. Then Ādi Śhakti was Their mother again. Then they were born to Fāṭimah Bi as Hasan and Husayn.<br>
They are both placed here, in your head.<br>
And They are the two milestones you have got, by which you can know what a human being can rise up to that now today They are like Incarnations. Incarnations are beyond, but maybe the gap can be bri... bridged."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1977-0215 Public Program (Hindi + English), Day 2, Sat-chit-ānanda, New Delhi, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"All the Scriptures, whether it is Bible, Qur'ān, or any Indian Scripture, even Lao Tze, or if we go to Zen or Buddha, Mahāvīra, all of them have said that: "You are to be reborn." "</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1982-0823 Public Program, Day 1, Temple de la Fusterie (Fusterie Temple), Place de la Fusterie, Geneva, Switzerland</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"And that's what one has to do: is to place yourself in such a way, 'Let us see.' Keep your minds open to see: what is the Truth about yourself.<br>
Now this Truth has been told by many Great Sages, by Prophets and many Incarnations who came on Earth. <font color="red">As we know Christ has said about it, Nāṇaka has said about it, Kabīra has said, Lao Tze has said, Buddha has said, everyone has said one thing, which is ... people ... which I should say people neglect and are not bothered about it.</font> And the simple thing is, that: 'You have to have your Second Birth. You have to know your Self. you have to have Self-realization.' This every one of them have said it."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1982-1007 Public Program, Truth Is to Be Achieved, Guild Hall (now Bedford Guild House), 56 Harpur Street, Bedford, Bedfordshire, UK</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"So that is what happened to both of Them [Śhrī Lav and Śhrī Kuśh].
Now, They were reborn again on this Earth, later on, much later, as Buddha and Mahāvīra. Say, They are the Principle of Moon and Sun, are the Principle of Disciple. Because these two ... two centers are in the Void. So then They became Buddha and Mahāvīra. At this stage, They became Buddha and Mahāvīra.<br>
But They found out after Their death that Buddhist[s] were another nonsense and these Jainist was another nonsense. You see, because these human beings create such problems that the same Incarnations think, `What did I tell them and what are they doing?' So [laughing:] They are born again [<font color="orange">unclear</font>].<br>
So They came back again as the two children of Fāṭimah Bi, who was again Sītājī, of Her, as the grandchildren of Muhammad Sāhab.<br>
And They then thought that, `You have to fight, with weapons, the evil forces!' And They died in Karbalāʾ.<br>
So, this voilence [violence] of Buddha which was preached and ... nonviolence of Buddha and nonviolence of ... uh-uh-uh Jainas, means Mahāvīra's nonviolence, was of a such an extreme nature, that both of Them took on this Earth Their birth to prove that it is essential that you have to fight, and this is not [the] nonvoilence [nonviolence] of the weak."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1982-1029 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, Creation, Original Sin, and Incarnations, Manhattan, New York City, NY, U.S.A.</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"Now, what people are enamored is that, if they see some people dancing madly, they feel enamored. Is a sign that you have not been able to understand.<br>
<font color="red">We have seen Christ, we have seen Buddha, Mahāvīra, Kabīra, Nāṇaka, we had Lao Tze and so many others. Did They behave like this? Did They become mad?</font> We have got Moses, did He become mad anytime? Was He mad anytime, behaving like a mad person?<br>
All these new theories have started, I think, fifty years back, or about sixty years back, that people believe in these new theories and they have forgotten all the kn... traditional things that have come to us, our heritage. And we depend more on these nonsensical things, which has no moorings at all! Because the people who are supposed to be the founders of all the religions, have never behave like this, and why this new type of things that has started? That people are behaving in this manner, and accepting it to be a very normal thing."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1983-0315 Public Program, Day 1, Maccabean Hall, 146, Darlinghurst Road, Darlinghurst (eastern suburb of Sydney), New South Wales, Australia</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"<font color="red">Everyone has said it: Christ has said it, Muhammad has said it, Buddha has said it, Mahāvīra has said it.</font> Everyone has said the same thing! Like Lao Tze, you can say Zen system, everything has said that, "You are to be born-again," there has to be some transformation within you. They didn't tell us lies!"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1983-0308 Press Conference, The Hotel Windsor, 111 Spring Street, Melbourne, Australia</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"......<br>
So, all the saṃnyāsa and all these ideas came gradually: everyone who came on this Earth, people have really made a mess out of them.<br>
<font color="red">And Buddha's mess has gone to such an extent, that, if you see that you'll be shocked. It went into many formations.</font><br>
But I heard from My son-in-law that he went and visited some of the caves where the very early Buddhist lived, very early Buddhist lived. In the caves because they were not supported by kings or anything so, they had a very bad time. And they used to live in the caves. And what My son-in-law told Me that in the caves there are writings: in Sanskrit, in Pali, and in Indian script, say-ing that, "It is the spontaneous happening that can bring forth the Self-realization." He's got that photographed.<br>
So, it's coming forward.<br>
You see, so they knew about it, the Sahaja Yoga. They knew about it.<br>
But then as every religion has gone into a mess and lot of funny sort of uh-uh-uh, we can say the uh-uh-uh, funny sort of uh expressions, also, Buddhism has gone, it became Mahāyān, Hīnayān, all sorts of thing.<br>
But one of them was called as Viditama, who ran away from India, settled down in Japan and he started the Zen system of religion, which he kept to the spontaneous happening. That's one was preserved.<br>
Another was the Lao Tze style who did not talk of God and of Buddha, but of Ta-o Itself: the Energy or we can say about the Ādi Śhakti.<br>
<font color="red">So these two good things came out of Him [Lord Buddha].</font><br>
......"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1983-0526 Śhrī Buddha Pūjā, Brighton Center, Brighton, East Sussex, UK</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"We have heard about the All-pervading Divine Power. <font color="red">Right from Lao Tze to Christ, to Buddha, all of Them have talked about it.</font><br>
We did not know about ether before, but we have heard about the Divine Power which is all-pervading.<br>
Once you are united with it, connected with it, then only you realize that you are a part and parcel of the whole. But before that, it's only talk. Talk of religion, talk about all philosophies, is just a talk.<br>
Without any experience of this Divine Power, if we are going to believe into these talks and these dogmas, also these mental projections, we'll reach a state where we will say: 'We don't believe in it.' But this is not the way to know the Divine."<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1986-0917 Public Program, Collège Saint-Michel, Boulevard Saint-Michel 24, Etterbeek, Brussels-Capital Region, Belgium</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"We have come to a place which we call as Brahmapuri here, called, perhaps, maybe because here Śhrī Rāmadāsa, the Guru of Śhivajī Mahārās [Mahārāj], in these deep waters found the statue of Śhrī Rāma, Sītā, Lakṣhmaṇa and Hanumāna together.<br>
Then they were carried from here and put in a temple called Chāphaḷ, the place where I saw that, also.<br>
......<br>
Also we have some miraculous things about Christ and His Mother, that we ... they found a statue of Mother Mary and Christ in one of the shores of Bombay [Mumbai] City, ca...  and  ... called as Worli [locality in central Mumbai and one of the 4 peninsulas], the fisherman found it in their net.<br>
Like Rāmadāsa when He jumped inside this he found it in the river, in the same way.<br>
......<br>
Now today, I am telling you this because Rāmadāsa was the Guru of Śhivajī. And He was the man who was very detached, He was Hanumāna Himself. And once He came to Śhivajī's place and Śhivajī was so fed up with this people and with the whole administration, and the way the things were. He had made a chit, saying that: "Mh... O, my Guru, I give You all my property, all my lands, all my kingdom, everything at Your Feet and You better look after it." And he [laughing:] put that chit in the ... uh-uh-uh we have the choḷī, you see, in the cloth sort of a thing.<br>
So He stood in the door and read it and he said, "What? [Laughing:] You've given Me everything?" He said, "I am a saṃnyāsī, and I don't know administration. But you can do everything ... uh-uh-uh the same way as you have been doing, but be detached about it. And to show that you are detached you must use a ... a ... waist under's ... under dhotī stuff we call it, in a triangular manner, it is made. You see, that thing, with the ... uh saffron color showing that you are detached and you are a saṃnyāsī."<br>
That's how this flag came into being.<br>
So the entry of the politics has been in this country ... uh entry into politics by uh-uh-uh sākṣhātkāri people or by Incarnation has been there.<br>
Most of the Incarnations have been kings. Like uh we have got Buddha, he was a king, Mahāvīra was a prince. Both were prince. Then we have got Rāma who was a king. Then we have got Śhrī Kṛiṣhṇa who became a king.<br>
So the aiśhwarya, the king-ness, has to be there. Has to be a royal family. Has to be, Incarnation should be from a royal family. In India it is, that is the concept."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1988-1220 Pūjā (English + Marathi), Garden, little House, Brahmapuri, Maharashtra, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"All the Incarnations who came on this Earth were a milestone on the ladder of our evolution. But They all had one type of work to do.<br>
Like the Goddess had to kill the rākṣhasas and save the devotees.<br>
That is why Śhrī Kṛiṣhṇa arranged this play. This was all a play. There is no need to be so serious about it. Śhrī Kṛiṣhṇa won everyone with His sweetness. He explained all our faults in a sweet and roundabout way. It was a very beautiful Incarnation of His.<br>
<font color="red">After Him came Mahāvīra and Buddha, who took an Incarnation of Seriousness. In this seriousness, They spoke of Oneness of the Spirit and the knowledge of the Whole.<br>
Then seriousness developed and the people became serious-minded, and made their daily lives very difficult. In fact neither Buddha nor Mahāvīra had said so.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1990-0409 Śhrī Ādi Śhakti Pūjā (Hindi), Kolkata, West Bengal, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"Buddha said the same, Mahāvīra said the same, Christ said the same, Kṛiṣhṇa said the same, Rāma said the same, Lao Tze, you find everyone, the Zen, everybody said the same thing that we have to achieve that world, that we have to enter into the Kingdom of God."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1994-0321 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, Birthday Felicitations, before Birthday Pūjā, Kalā Mandir Hall, Kolkata, West Bengal, India</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"And you know everything! All the subtle knowledge which was not known to you.<br>
<font color="red">Then you can understand uh-uh-uh Tao of Lao Tze, you can ... you can understand uh Buddha, Zen, Viditama, Christ, and all other Incarnations. You get connected to them. And that is how you achieve this power.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1994-0420 Public Program, Taipei City, Taiwan}\label{1994-0420 Public Program, Taipei City, Taiwan</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"How do you know your Self? When this Kuṇḍalinī rises, She passes through six centers. She passes through six centers, and pierces through the, we call it seventh one, through the bra... fontanel-bone area, which is actualization. You can feel It on top of your head.<br>
I mean, every Saint, every Sufi has talked about it, if you have read them. Lao Tze has talked about it. <font color="red">Everyone, Buddha has talked about it, that you have to have your Self-realization.</font> Self-realization means knowing about your Self. All of them have said this!"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>2000-0616 Public Program, Town Hall, 123 West and 43rd Street, Manhattan, New York City, NY, U.S.A.</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b></b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">""</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>The Book of Ādi Śhakti, Chapter 10: The Central Path of Sustenance</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
<font color="red">"omehow when it comes to religion, they will only follow Christ, or only follow Muhammad Sāhib or only follow Buddha. In Sahaja Yoga we have all of Them, absolutely activating your Kuṇḍalinī. Everybody in Sahaja Yoga knows so much about Them, and the most important thing is that They are all with us, They are part and parcel of us and They are not separated by anything. They were working the same process in history, and now we are working it out in the present with all of Them."</font><br>
<font size="+0"><b>1991-0700 Book 'Sahaja Yoga', Chapter 2: Vishwa Nirmala Dharma</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
"All the religions from ancient times have said that a man or a woman has to cleanse their mind through religious activity, with righteous thinking. The aim of every religion was to establish balance in every way to make way for the ascent of the seeker. <font color="red">The Second Birth, Walīhood, Selfhood, Buddha's State, Jaini State, Gnostic, or Ātma-sākṣhātkār, are all names for Self-realization.</font> It was all right in the olden days, where people wanted to be good and to ascend. They obeyed and tried to do whatever was asked for by the Saints, Prophets or Incarnations.<br>
......<br>
On the whole, if you see, Western culture denies Christ who sacrificed his life for the sins of the people. Those who call themselves Christians indulge in all kinds of activities which are anti-Christ. When Christ came into this world in the Realm of Divinity, one had to go through penance (tapasyā). <font color="red">Buddha and Mahāvīra had to do the same at that time.</font> Christians do not know what is penance and they cannot sacrifice even a pin for others. They are very good at lip service. Big conferences are held in the developing nations for monetary help, who pay for these conferences and the outcome is that nothing can be done for the poor countries while Westerners spend their superfluous money on all kinds of waste.<br>
......<br>
Now, a few words about Buddhism. <font color="red">Lord Buddha talked about compassion, compassion and compassion. He bore all the troubles of those days and at the end of his life he was in a very bad financial condition and ultimately he died in a very remote corner of India. Lord Buddha's life has been really ideal but people believe that you cannot attain spiritual ascent unless and until you suffer like Him and give up everything the way He had given it up.</font> The ascetic concept is that one has to give up the family, one has to give up money, property, all possessions, one has to give up the normal life that one leads and has to be an absolute celibate in order to move on the spiritual path. But there are Buddhists and Buddhists. Most of their different forms are lost in ritualism or mental meditation. The Japanese follow the Zen system without understanding anything about it. <font color="red">They have built a beautiful temple of Buddha in Bodhi Gayā where Buddha got his Nirvāṇa.</font> When Genghis Khān invaded Behar, the Buddhist monks did not resort to violence and died. Another style of Buddhism is that of the Japanese who had to learn a lesson through the extreme suffering of Hiroshima.<br>
The Dalai Lamas preach nonviolence, but they have been very money or gold-oriented people. In Beijing, one can see thousands of gold plates and gold beer mugs with Pali inscriptions in the secret vaults. It is said they were rescued from a river by the Chinese soldiers who went after Mister [Dalai] Lama and his followers who were running away to India and who dumped part of the gold they were carrying in the river. This was rescued and put in the museum. They wear saffron clothes to show that they are saṃnyāsīs but live like lords in Dharmaśhālā. I met such a Canadian saṃnyāsī in Canada and he told me that he had no other clothes but these. He said he lost all his property to Dalai Lama who begs all over the world. In Dharmaśhālā, there was a great protest against these very aggressive Dalai Lama's people, but many Governments have sympathy for this money-oriented (gold-oriented), spiritual head, so to pacify these ignorant Governments, who do not discriminate between truth and hypocrisy, the protesters had to ask for forgiveness.<br>
As it is, India has a large load of refugees and they cannot afford to have these gold-oriented saṃnyāsīs which have created a diplomatic rift between China and India. There are Buddhists in Nepal who believe in black magic. Many seekers go to Nepal and get lost. Buddhist Lamas are of many kinds. Some of them have monasteries where to raise the Kuṇḍalinī the seekers are beaten on the spinal cord till their backs are broken. In China they also worship Mother Mercy, Kuan Yin [Guānyīn], who was a Chinese Incarnation. <font color="red">Lord Buddha has given three mantras to chant: to surrender to Lord Buddha or a realized Soul; surrender to dharma (morality); surrender to collectivity.</font> They use a noisy wail to chant mantras. <font color="red">Like all other religious Incarnations he has talked of "Maitreya", is a future Buddha who will give liberation. "Maitreya" means that three Mothers together will incarnate to give Nirvāṇa.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1995-0929 Meta Modern Era, Chapter 6: Religions</b></font>
</p>

<div class="para-divider"></div>

<p>
In Japan we had another great Master whose name was Viditama. <font color="red">"He was the disciple of Lord Buddha and he went to Japan and started the Zen system.</font>"<br>
<font size="+0"><b>1995-0929 Meta Modern Era, Chapter 8: World Peace</b></font>
</p>

<br>
<p style="color:red;">Jay Śhrī Mātājī!<br></p>