---
title: 'Poem by Bob Rankin, Brisbane from 2004-0213 Sahaja Yoga Australian Newsletter, Page 1'
date: 2004-10-08
permalink: /folder/2004-1008-1015-BR
tags:
  - black @ Poetry
  - blue @ Bob Rankin
  - brown @ 2004
  - cornflowerblue @ Brisbane
  - deeppink @ 2004-1008-1015 Sahaja Yoga Australian Newsletter
---

<br>

<p>
A brief stay in the country<br>
Has prompted me to write<br>
Of the divine beauty we may not see<br>
Unless with God, we do unite.<br>
<br>
The morning breeze among the mist<br>
The warming sun through the hills<br>
Are all part of nature’s list<br>
Of beauty, that the Spirit fills.<br>
<br>
Hearing birdsong sweetly alters<br>
Out attention from the mundane<br>
Creating a forgotten awareness<br>
Nil thoughts coming from this brain.<br>
<br>
For a moment we remember<br>
The truth of "who are you?"<br>
Not body, mind, but Spirit<br>
In essence, a life born anew.<br>
<br>
’T is true that with some practise<br>
Of the attention towards innocence<br>
That ego, conditioning and malice<br>
Diminish—now that’s heaven-sent!<br>
<br>
But, even armed with this knowledge<br>
The student may fail to grasp<br>
What is his or her birthright<br>
To ascend with God, at long last.<br>
<br>
"But how does this union happen?"<br>
You may well rightfully ask<br>
Well, here starts your first lesson<br>
Let’s take the challenge to task.<br>
<br>
’Tis a simple process really<br>
For the kundalini to uncoil<br>
But it must be done with authority<br>
From a Sahaj Yogi who knows the toil.<br>
<br>
Prepare yourself with humility<br>
Be strong of pure desire<br>
Then the power born from chastity<br>
Will rise up, as cool blue fire.<br>
<br>
Repeat the affirmations given<br>
With hand motions to match<br>
Expect the best to happen<br>
And like a witness, just watch.<br>
<br>
When the thoughts dissolve<br>
Then the cool breeze shows<br>
The truth, the joy and happiness<br>
That the Spirit only knows.<br>
<br>
This phenomenon is happening<br>
Across all religion, caste and creed<br>
The only question arising<br>
Is, will you join in, to succeed?<br>
</p>

<br>

<wave-list>
<list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="40">Sources</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>S1. </b> 2004-1008 and 1015 Sahaja Yoga Australian Newsletter, Page 3, link <a href="https://seven-teams.github.io/archives/2023/0706-a"><font color="DarkGreen">Archive Post 10, Part 5</font></a>.</list-item>
</wave-list>