---
title: 'Poem from 1982-1100 and 1200 Nirmala Yoga, Page 30'
date: 1982-11-01
permalink: /folder/1982-1101-1100-1200-NY-Page-30
tags:
  - aquamarine @ Poetry
  - black @ TBD
  - brown @ 1982
  - cornflowerblue @ TBD
  - deeppink @ 1982-1100 and 1200 Nirmala Yoga
---

<br>

<p>
O Great Mother of us all<br>
O Holiest of holies,<br>
We come to Thee<br>
with bended knee,<br>
with eyes cast to the ground<br>
and hearts awash with Joy.<br>
<br>
Blessed are these eyes,<br>
that have gazed upon thy<br>
Perfect Form.<br>
Blessed are these ears,<br>
that have heard the music<br>
of Thy voice.<br>
Blessed is this head,<br>
'pon which Thy gentle and<br>
mighty hand has rested.<br>
Blessed are these feet,<br>
that have walked behind<br>
Thee.<br>
Blessed, blessed, a thousandfold<br>
blessed are we.<br>
<br>
With bended knee<br>
we pray to Thee,<br>
Great Mother of us all<br>
that we be worthy<br>
of Thy mercy.<br>
<br>
Let us go forth and proclaim<br>
Thy Name,<br>
O Comforter, O Saviour,<br>
O Mother of us all,<br>
that all may know that<br>
Thou art come.<br>
<br>
Jerusalem! O fount of hope<br>
and Joy!<br>
With bended knee we come to thee,<br>
O source of our renewal.<br>
<br>
Sing Albion the fair!<br>
O holy Land,<br>
'pon whose ground<br>
Sri Adi Shakti Mataji,<br>
Great Mother of us all<br>
has trodden.<br>
Those feet, the fairest<br>
in all the Universe<br>
have touched thy soil,<br>
O Albion,<br>
Rejoice!<br>
<br>
The Heart, long slumbering<br>
has now awakened,<br>
rising as the Phoenix from its ashes.<br>
Arise! Arise dear brothers!<br>
Arise sweet sisters!<br>
Unsheath your swords of light!<br>
See, the darkness is receding.<br>
Send forth your heralds<br>
to the four corners of the earth<br>
that all may know<br>
that She is come<br>
The Comforter,<br>
The Redeemer,<br>
The Mother of us all.<br>
</p>

<br>

<wave-list>
<list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="40">Sources</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>S1. </b> 1982-1100 and 1200 Nirmala Yoga, Page 30.</list-item>
</wave-list>