---
title: '1989-0424 Song &#8216;The Gift of Love&#8217; by Grégoire de Kalbermatten,  Heathrow Airport from the 1989-0400 and 0500 The Divine Cool Breeze (U.S.A.), Volume 3, Issue 4, Page 13'
date: 1989-04-24
permalink: /folder/1989-0401-GK-Heathrow-Airport-1989-0400-0500-DCB-USA-P13
tags:
  - black @ Song
  - blue @ Grégoire de Kalbermatten
  - brown @ 1989
  - cornflowerblue @ Heathrow Airport
  - deeppink @ 1989-0400 and 0500 The Divine Cool Breeze (U.S.A.)
  - green @ Story of The Song at Heathrow Airport  
---

<br>

<p>
Waking up from a summer night's dream<br>
I saw, laying in the grass<br>
As the forms that are no more but had been<br>
The serpent skin of my individuality.<br>
The dew was cool, the moon shiny<br>
I in You and You in me<br>
Got up sleepy and Good Morning<br>
I looked around to touch Being<br>
They were all there, brothers, sisters<br>
The ones He loved, the worshippers<br>
My very Self, children of Mother.<br>
Perfumes have shapes, sounds carry light<br>
<br>
The tongues of fire burn tall and bright<br>
Look at the Horse! It is all white.
</p>

<br>

<wave-list>
<list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="40">Sources</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>S1. </b> 1989-0400 and 0500 The Divine Cool Breeze (U.S.A.), Volume 3, Issue 4, Page 13, link <a href="https://b286c762-1c9b-468d-afbf-9f039b298299.usrfiles.com/ugd/b286c7_ec6a1930be0f4e01a31bbb584fe96e34.pdf"><font color="DarkGreen">1989-0400 and 0500 The DCB (U.S.A.)</font></a>.</list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
<list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="25">Story</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>1989-0400 and 0500 The Divine Cool Breeze (U.S.A.), Volume 3, Issue 4, Page 13, Author's Note:</b> "Tremendous among the tremendous milestones of Sahaja history was the great Hanuman puja performed in Margate ("Ma gate'), South England on 23 April, birthdate of William-Shakespeare and day of Saint George, patron of England! As I sit in Heathrow airport lo put on paper some of my recollections, l deeply feel the inadequacy of words, or any form of human expression to render the effects of joy's swelling spring, "bliss casualty" and vibration blast that we came to experience. When they say that reality goes beyond fiction, what can we say about Reality? It goes beyond dreams and desires: the best we wish for ourselves is nothing compared to the best that the Adi Shakti wishes for Her children. Born in a drop, we felt that the
highest we might possibly achieve is the pond; we don't even dare the lake. But She, the Ishwari, smiles, with eyes radiating timeless love, and what She pours for us, is the Ocean. From that all encompassing, ominiscient [omniscient] glance, the snow of Kailash is melting in the river of love, the water of Vaikuntha purifies us through recognition of the Truth of Her Divinity. From beyond the walls of time, as She graciously danced to create the primordial sound, Her glance captured us all, already there, as we are now, drinking Chaitanya, kneeling knights and laughing lions, children born in shyness to their own divinity, pilgrims and virgin princesses who were true enough to their pure desire that they may now see their God face to face. And the beaming of Her children's faces, as they stand before Her, through precious tears of adoration, manifest the rainbow response of angelic love. The glance that was cast on Shri Hanuman in Lanka's Ashoka Gardens; the glance that received the High Angel Gabriel in Nazareth; the glance of the Primordial Goddess blessed the kundalinis of six hundred yogis and yoginis prostrated before Her at the end of the puja. And because She so willed and desired, this glance covered us with the faultless kavach, the armour of invisible diamonds that was ever yearned for by the first eleven lords of the gone by days.<br>

What shall I write? These lines are about Love and God, and Love which is the Motherhood of God and about the creation of a new angelic metal in the fire of Kali Yuga. Let us go deep within ourselves to receive Her glance through the window of our Atma. To receive the core of all bliss, the recognition of Shri Mataji's Divinity. Only this movement will raise us into our full reality and we shall, in silent gratitude and glory, recognize our own truth, we shall know who we are."</list-item>
</wave-list>