---
title: "1964-0400 Visit with Daughters, Egypt"
date: 2024-01-28
display_date: 
sort_date: 1964-04-20
permalink: /events/1964-0420-0400
tags:
  - brown @ Egypt
  - crimson @ 1964
  - deeppink @ Other
  - green @ 1964-04
  - orange @ Cairo
  - orange @ Port Said
    - orange @ Suez
  - peru @ Visit
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR1. Quote from 1981-1006 Public Program (8th Day of Navarātri), Day 3, The New Age Has Started (From Kṛiṣhṇa to Christ), Venue 2, Unity (Church of Christianity), 2929 Unity Drive, Houston, TX, U.S.A.:</b> "Egyptians didn't know much about God, I must tell you.<br>
Of course, pyramid is, pyramid is, pyramid is all vibrated.<br>
But the way they dea... were so much worried about their dead is horrifying! Imagine these bones buried in the one box of gold, then one box of silver, then one box of this and all the ornaments kept with the dead. The dead is finished into bones, the ornaments are there. I have seen that in Egypt: mad people, I must say!"</list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR2. Quote from 1988-0106 Śhrī Mahāgaṇeśha Pūjā (English + Marathi), God is Sat-chit-ānand (Clear Your Attention First and Fly in the Sky of Joy or All These Modern Ideas Are Anti Life), Gaṇapatīpuḷe, Maharashtra, India</b> "Like in Egypt, Pharaohs were bur... buried with all their things, you see."</list-item>   
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="65"> Recollections</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>R1. 2022-0721 WhatsApp message from Mrs. Kalpana Srivastava to CCT related to a Photo:</b> "I had first thought it was from Egypt in 1964, but after scrutinizing it carefully, I realized this is from Japan."</list-item>
   <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280"><b>R2. 2024-0128 WhatsApp message from Mrs. Kalpana Srivastava to CCT:</b> "On the way up to Liverpool, the ship stopped in port Suez. We disembarked in port Suez, and went by road to Port Said, where the ship did not come into the port. We went in a boat to board the ship out at sea.<br>
On our way, we saw the pyramids and Cairo city."</list-item>
</wave-list>