---
title: "1964-0500 Visit with Daughters, Liverpool and London, UK"
date: 2024-01-05
display_date: 
sort_date: 1964-05-01
permalink: /events/1964-0501-0500
tags:
  - brown @ UK
  - crimson @ 1964
  - deeppink @ Other
  - green @ 1964-05
  - orange @ Liverpool
  - orange @ London
  - peru @ Visit
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR1. Quote from 1979-0114 Public Program (Hindi), Day 1, Satya kā Anveṣhaṇa (Exploration of Truth), Biralā Krīṛā Keṃdra, Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India:</b> <i>"When I first went to England in nineteen sixty-five [1965 (1964)], I wondered whether that country was under some calamity. Such a cold wind, such snow, sharp piercing wind, gets inside your body and pokes all over and fills the body with pain. People cover themselves with heavy capes and then only can they move. Then only you can go out. No one can live under a tree in London. No one can live in huts in London. You cannot sit in your house unless it is heated."</i></list-item>  
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="250"><b>CR2. Quote from 1979-0524 Public Program, Seeking and Rationality, Caxton Hall, 10 Caxton Street, Westminster, London, UK:</b> <i>"And when uh such a thing starts you start doubting, you see. So you go into a doubting state.<br>
Then you have to rise up to doubtless awareness, when it is a slow moving thing.<br>
Like say, from ... from here to I have to go to America, I can go just in a straight line, everything. Otherwise if there is a slow moving thing, then you know by, if I go by, say, a ship then I can go by uh touching all your ports, Liverpool, this, that, and then go to America.<br>
So if it is a slow moving thing, then, maybe, that maturity takes time."</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR3. Quote from 1981-0511 Public Program, Christ and Forgiveness, Caxton Hall, 10 Caxton Street, Westminster, London, UK:</b> <i>"I would compare it to Indian classical music, you see. "When an Indian classical music can sing, so why not [we]? Our only jazz music or this shaky music," you see, then they take the thing in their hands and are [everyone laughs]. I mean, you feel the error. 'They are going to break or not going to break?' I said, "No, they are or a, 'Ha, ha, ha, ha!', [as laughter starts:] they go on."<br>
So, in the beginning it was a shock! Not to see, 'What's happening? Is he all right?' Is gone mad or what is he doing about that?' [Laughter.] You could not accept it, is the way, it is really for old people like Me [laughter]. It was a shock to see the way people were holding on to it and, "Ho, ho, ho," [as laughter starts:] and the other people were shaking their legs like this and shaking like that, so they were going like that. One was raising the head.<br>
The, this was the first show we, I saw, I think about uh sixty-five ['65 ('64)] when I came here."</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="250"><b>CR4. Quote from 1981-0520 Public Program, The Most Beautiful Thing that God Has Created Is the Human Beings, Selfridge's (department store, organized by a Sahaja Yoginī who was working there), London, UK (other date 0529):</b> <i>"For example now, I have been to Selfridges before also [laughing:] many a times. I came here in nineteen sixty-five [1965 (1964)], to begin with, and when people told Me about Selfridges I had very different ideas, till I came here and saw the place Myself.</i>"</list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR5. Quote from 1990-0320 Interview with two Gentlemen for a Sunday Program of 2XX FM Community Radio Station, House, Canberra, Australia:</b> <i>"Now London is improving very much. But it had gone down so badly.<br>
First I went in sixty-five ['65 ('64)')], then it was good, but the hippies things has started. And by the time it was '70, I think, it was at the peak of the hippie era, where I picked up seven pickies ... pi... hippies. [Laughs.]<br>
But now, people are getting sensible. Sensible but ..."</i></list-item> 
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="65"> Recollections</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>R1. 2024-0105 WhatsApp message from Mrs. Kalpana Srivastava addressed to Alan Pereira and received by him first and by CCT second:</b> "Mummy along with me and Sadhana travelled to London for the first time in May 1964. We went on board [of] an SCI ship. The first port of call was Liverpool, from where we travelled by train to London."</list-item>
   <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280"><b>R2. 2024-0105 WhatsApp message from Luis Garrido to a WhatsApp group:</b> "My wife and I were about to move to Liverpool in 1983, but we were not sure it was a good move. We mentioned it to Mother who told us immediately that Liverpool was a great place, She liked it very much, and that it was the first place She came to when She first came to the UK and that She came by ship and landed in Liverpool. Mother also told us She liked Liverpool very much and its people."</list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>