---
title: "1964-052x Arrival with Daughters, Port, Liverpool, Merseyside, UK"
date: 2024-01-05
display_date: 
sort_date: 1964-05-26
permalink: /events/1964-0526-052x
tags:
  - brown @ UK
  - crimson @ 1964
  - deeppink @ Other
  - green @ 1964-05
  - maroon @ Merseyside
  - orange @ Liverpool
  - peru @ Visit
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>CR1. Quote from 1979-0114 Public Program (Hindi), Day 1, Satya kā Anveṣhaṇa (Exploration of Truth), Biralā Krīṛā Keṃdra, Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India:</b> <i>"When I first went to England in nineteen sixty-five [1965 (1964)], I wondered whether that country was under some calamity. Such a cold wind, such snow, sharp piercing wind, gets inside your body and pokes all over and fills the body with pain. People cover themselves with heavy capes and then only can they move. Then only you can go out. No one can live under a tree in London. No one can live in huts in London. You cannot sit in your house unless it is heated."</i></list-item>  
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="250"><b>CR2. Quote from 1979-0524 Public Program, Seeking and Rationality, Caxton Hall, 10 Caxton Street, Westminster, London, UK:</b> <i>"And when uh such a thing starts you start doubting, you see. So you go into a doubting state.<br>
Then you have to rise up to doubtless awareness, when it is a slow moving thing.<br>
Like say, from ... from here to I have to go to America, I can go just in a straight line, everything. Otherwise if there is a slow moving thing, then you know by, if I go by, say, a ship then I can go by uh touching all your ports, Liverpool, this, that, and then go to America.<br>
So if it is a slow moving thing, then, maybe, that maturity takes time."</i></list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="65"> Recollections</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>R1. 2024-0105 WhatsApp message from Mrs. Kalpana Srivastava addressed to Alan Pereira and received by him first and by CCT second:</b> "Mummy along with me and Sadhana travelled to London for the first time in May 1964. We went on board [of] an SCI ship. The first port of call was Liverpool, from where we travelled by train to London."</list-item>
   <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280"><b>R2. 2024-0105 WhatsApp message from Luis Garrido to a WhatsApp group:</b> "My wife and I were about to move to Liverpool in 1983, but we were not sure it was a good move. We mentioned it to Mother who told us immediately that Liverpool was a great place, She liked it very much, and that it was the first place She came to when She first came to the UK and that She came by ship and landed in Liverpool. Mother also told us She liked Liverpool very much and its people."</list-item>
   <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>R3. 2024-0128 WhatsApp message from Mrs. Kalpana Srivastava to CCT:</b> "We were in London on 27th May 1964. I remember the date, because that day India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru passed away.<br>
Sir CP was also in London that day. He had come for an official meeting."</list-item>   
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="110">Chronological Updates</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="110"><b>CU1 on 2024-0128:</b> Added R3 and moved the cross-references pertaining to London to the new event <a href="https://seven-teams.github.io/events/1964-0527"> <font color="DeepPink"><b>1964-0527 Visit with Daughters, London, UK</b></font></a>.</list-item>
</wave-list>