---
title: "1966-0800 Visit with the Two Daughters, Shrine Area, Japan"
date: 2024-09-17
display_date: 
sort_date: 1966-08-07
permalink: /events/1966-0807-0800
tags:
  - brown @ Japan
  - crimson @ 1966
  - deeppink @ Other
  - green @ 1966-08
  - peru @ Shrine
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR1. Quote from 1990-0826 Śhrī Gaṇeśha Pūjā, The Glow of Śhrī Gaṇeśha, Lanersbach, Austria.:</b> <i>Once I went to Japan, and the there was a shrine, they wanted Me to see. So I saw some ladies coming down -- three, four ladies. They're Western ladies. They said, "Don't go! Don't go, there are some children horrible!" I said, "Why?" "They call you witch. They called us all, 'Witches, witches, witches,' " Japanese children. I said, "How do you know? They must be saying in Japanese." "No, we asked the meaning, so they told us it means witches. We are ... they look ... we look like witches to them. So better not go!" I said, "It's all right. Let Me go."<br>
And when I went up, they all came running, clung to Me, kissed Me, this thing. They wouldn't allow Me to go to the shrine. And then they walked all the way to the shrine, they came back. I didn't know their language or anything. So sweet! Kissing My sāṛī, kissing My hand, so sweet they were. And I was surprised: [laughing:] 'That how is it they call the other ladies as witches and to Us, to Me ...?'<br>
And My daughters were also with us.<br>
And My daughters are very fond of children. So, then they said uh, "You see, why to go to the shrine? We'll play with the children." I said, "No, let's go to the shrine, after all." [Some laughter, laughs.]<br>
So when we wint [went] up, these children also came with us and walked down.<br>
And their par... mothers were so surprised, you see? Thay [they] said: "Normally to all the foreigners, to all the foreigners, they say, 'Witches,' or even to men they say, 'They are devils.' 'Devils are coming.' "<br>
Because Japanese are short people, you see. And the sizes of our Western people are quite big, and perhaps maybe that is the reason, whatever it is, or maybe something else, I don't know.<br>
And the they wouldn't, I mean, even talk to them. They all ran away, calling them, "Witches, witches," from the windows and from every corner.<br>
Then I realized, you see, these small, little children, their Gaṇeśha is awakened in them.</i></list-item>
</wave-list>