---
title: "1975-1200 Visit with Public Programs Organized by Jains, Mombasa, Kenya"
date: 2023-08-29
display_date: 
sort_date: 1975-12-01
permalink: /events/1975-1201-1200-a
tags:
  - brown @ Kenya
  - crimson @ 1975
  - deeppink @ Other
  - deeppink @ Public Program  
  - green @ 1975-12
  - orange @ Mombasa
  - peru @ Jain  
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR1. Quote from 1975-1117 Letter to Mrs. Rāja Kuṃwar Raul (Marathi), London, UK:</b> "<i>I will be traveling to East Africa and from there I will come to Mumbai on 18-19-20 December. Once reservation is confirmed will let you know exact date.</i>"</list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>CR2. Quote from 1975-1222 Public Program (Hindi), Day 1, Prabhu ke Prem kā Anubhav (Experiences of Lord's Love), Gita Mandir Hall, Bharatiya Vidyā Bhavan (3rd floor), 29, Kulapati K.M. Munshi Mārg, Chowpatty, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India:</b> "<i>Recently I had been to Mombasa [in Kenya] and they said, "Mātājī, Lakṣhmījī's grace is there but now give us peace because our wives have gone crazy, our homes are disturbed, all the children have gone crazy, there is mental derangement and the most number of suicides are taking place here."</i> "</list-item>  
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR3. Quote from 1979-0416 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, Āgñyā and Lord Jesus Christ, Phillipa's House, Barnes, SW London, UK:</b> "<i>I went to East Africa, for your information, ...... and the I saw horrible things happening there, too.
......<br>
You see, all kinds of these horrible people are being exported from India. You see, because they don't need any license for exporting or importing! [Some laughter.] 
......<br>
And they very nicely go and settle down in East Africa. There might be hundreds, hundreds of these thugs, sitting down there, doing Pūjā, this, that, and collecting all kinds of uh people around and exploiting them.<br>
And East Africans are very traditional people. You see, they went there long time back, they are still keeping up the traditions and this.
......<br>
And then they took Me to a temple there. And in the temple, when I was there, they all were doing 'hooh-hooh, hooh-hooh': all were possessed! In My presence, see, they all got possessed. [A Sahaja Yogi laughs.] And so, "What sort of a temple is this one?" And it was a Kālī's temple, just imagine! I said, "He is wretched," not because from where have they come. And I asked them, "Who is the one, who is your guru?" The guru had run away, you see, that he was not there. They were blast even nicely. And I told these ladies that, "Throw him away, everything! This is what it is and you are all being ..."<br>
There's so much of black magic, this, that going on in that East Africa. It's, you know, every third person was possessed. Horrible things were happening.<br>
And maybe in Uganda also, and you have such a horrible, this rākṣhasa there living, now thank God is finished.<br>
And all these people uh ... were so much uh impressed by these uh ... uh paṇḍits and paṇḍas coming from there. 
......<br>
And the ... when I was in Nasty ... East Africa, I told all of them, even these Jainis and all of them, and I shouted at them and I said, "You will go all of you to Hell." And they were so much frightened, they said, "What are You saying Mother?" I said, "All these will fall down in no time, all these temples and all these."<br>
But here are also the same things I find, My child, it's nowhere an exception, except it: it is very clever here, and it's a very crude there. But also here the same thing. 
......<br>
You see, this is what it is: without Self-realization you cannot understand God. Without Self-realization you can even worship a demon or a man thinking that he is God.<br>
That's why you must have Self-realization: that is the only way you are going to know them.<br>
One small thing will people do not understand, 'How can you purchase God? How can you pay for God?'<br>
In East Africa I know, it was so, I am so, people were mad and you don't know why.<br>
My host himself, his wife were so sick. She was so sick, she was mentally so upset and she was getting into fits and things like that, but we have to do something about it. And I told that this is all wrong! You throw away all these people from!"<br>
Same in Uganda.<br>
This is all moneymaking propositions, but you awaken to it.<br>
You see, there is a fashion now, in East Africa. 'Who is your guru?' Everybody must have a paint and they must have a guru.<br>
Why must you have a guru? I can't understand. But you do not know whether he is a guru or a he is a rākṣhasa.<br>
......<br>
'But what have you gained?' is the point, you should ask them. All right? You should say that: 'What has he given you? You have given him money, you have given him fruits, you have given him clothes, you have done everything, what has he given to you?" He is suffering from all kinds of diseases, what has he given [to him]? 
......<br>
You see, if he is at a higher position, you should get something from that, isn't it?<br>
'What has he given you?'<br>
But when you come to Sahaja Yoga, what happens to you? You're physically, mentally, emotionally, you are put right. Spiritually, you start feeling the vibrations. You can cure people, you know there are many Sahaja Yogis who have cured people. You can cure cancer!<br>
That is one-sided! Only the person who can give is the guru, not the one who can take. That's why he's called as guru.<br>
If they say so, you should ask: 'What have you achieved?' Only you have ... uh cleared out with your purses [laughs], [laughing:] given away all that you possessed, now you have become a beggar! That's what you have achieved!<br>
They are possessed by these people, that's why they can't see. They can't see. You know, they ... they posses you, that's why you cannot see.<br>
......<br>
But there is a ... this is very true: this kind of a fanaticism is there.<br>
[As a Sahaja Yogi starts laughing:] But you young people can fight it out! That's why you are born at this time and you are young. You have to tell them that, 'This is wrong.' Not very ...<br>
Also, I must say: in East Africa, within eight days time, there was such a change, such a change. Tremendous change came in. And they were elderly people also [who got changed].<br>
Even, I went to the, actually the Jainis had arranged My program, then I gave them right and left there all about Jainism and about Mahāvīra I told them, "What are you doing? This is not Jainism!" Not a word! They started thinking about it.<br>
[After 10 seconds:] So, it is true, they are like that. It's a sad thing.<br>
But there is a trick in Sahaja Yoga by which you can turn them round. I will tell you later on. There are lots of tricks by which you can make these people come around.</i>"</list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>CR4. Quote from 1980-0827 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, Feel the Urge to Grow, Āśhram, 8, Hamilton Road, Dollis Hill, London NW10 1NX, UK (other dates 0700, 0800):</b> "<i>I've never seen such things happening so far. I mean I've worked even in East Africa, all over, but never, never such things happened.<br>
This is demonic! I don't know how you can explain it. I didn't know you were not keeping any accounts. I had no idea. I had no idea at all [that] you were keeping no accounts. I had no idea that money was taken from others and everybody coming here was paying and nobody knew what was paid, who was paid, who was not paying, in the nature paying or not. Nothing is known! I mean, I thought at least that much you can manage among yourselves.</i>"</list-item>   
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR5. Quote from 1986-0531 Workshop, Wallet Hall, Unity (Church of Christianity), 2929 Unity Drive, Houston, TX, U.S.A.:</b> "<i>Uh like I went [in 1975] to a place called Mombasa [in Kenya], and I was surprised that so many people were possessed there. As soon as I touched the shores, I said, "Waw! What's this place is like‽ It's full of negative forces, full of these things and uh ... you are not aware of it. It is in the atmosphere."</i> "</list-item>
</wave-list>