---
title: "1976-090x Mass and Meeting with Archbishop of Krakow, Wawel Cathedral, Wavel 3, Krakow, Poland"
date: 2024-02-03
display_date: 
sort_date: 1976-09-01
permalink: /events/1976-0901-090x
tags:
  - brown @ Poland
  - crimson @ 1976
  - deeppink @ Other
  - green @ 1976-08
  - orange @ Krakow
  - peru @ Wawel Cathedral
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="80">Cross-references</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR1. Quote from 1981-0927 Public Program, Day 4, East West Center, 141 5th Avenue, Manhattan, New York City, NY, U.S.A.:</b><br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>You know this Pope of yours, I went to Krakow. I went uh with My husband to Krakow.</i><br>
<b>Lady:</b> Oh just the how [<font color="orange">unclear</font>].<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>Who -- just before, before he became the Pope [Cardinal Karol Józef Wojtyła, Archbishop of Krakow, became Pope John Paul II on 1978-1016]. And the, you see, he's [Sir C.P.'s] a big man, so they took Me ... uh they said, "What are You interested in?" I said, "I'm interested in churches," so they took Me to Krakow.<br>
And they had a mass. You see, this fellow came and shook My hands and I raised his Kuṇḍalinī, all right. And It pierced [snapping the right fingers:] through also. But [snapping again:] It again went back, because he's a Christian like that. And the I worked [<font color="orange">unclear</font>], worked on him quite a lot.<br>
But you know what happened? Recently there was a photograph of Pope [John Paul II]. And [raising the right arm:] his hand came out like this, and [holding the raised arm with Her left hand:] the hand is missing. His hand is missing.</i><br>
<b>Lady:</b> I know! I know! I know.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>And that ...</i><br>
<b>Lady:</b> I know what You are saying, I know about this.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>And that [laughing:] photograph was published. They don't know how it was published.<br>
Let them see these points.<br>
And Rome, in Rome people are very much against him. Very much against all institutions, it's nonsense that they do.</i><br>
<b>Lady:</b> It's horrible!</list-item>  
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>CR2. Quote from 1982-0426 Conversation with Sahaja Yogis, Apartment of Ruth Lederberger, Via Giuseppe Mercalli, 46, Rome, Italy:</b> <i>This Mister Pope, I've risen his Kuṇḍalinī this one governing right now.</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> Sorry?<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>When I went to Krakow [in 1976 summer], you see, I went ... I went to their place because My husband is a VIP. You see, so they ... they made a Mass for this thing. And this fellow [Cardinal Karol Józef Wojtyła, Archbishop of Krakow] was the cardinal, was the cardinal of this Krakow.</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> Mh-hm.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>I didn't know all that but, you see, I raised his Kuṇḍalinī, should be the answer [<font color="orange">unclear</font>] hand. Very, very impressed by the Indian people, this one.<br>
And I raised his Kuṇḍalinī. He felt that, also, but it fell down like that.<br>
And the I wrote a letter to Grégoire [on 1976-0906] because Grégoire's birthday is on the eighth of September. And I, I wrote to him a letter and I said, "I'd met uh just someone like this, a cardinal, and I raised his Kuṇḍalinī." Because Grégoire was uh sort of moved, sort of worried about all the Catholics going to Hell, you see. [As laughter starts:] I said, "One of them are there. But you don't worry but I don't think It will stay there. It's all fallen down and all that."<br>
And the letter will be there.<br>
So when he [cardinal] was elected [as Pope on 1978-1016 under the name John Paul II], he [Grégoire] said, "I'd forgotten all that." He said, "Mother, the one whom You [laughing:] gave Realization."</i><br>
<b>Lady or Sahaja Yoginī:</b> [<font color="orange">unclear</font>].<br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> That could have helped him.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>Uh?</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> That could have helped him.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> [As he laughs:] <i>I don't know.<br>
But sometimes, you know, he, Grégoire says that.<br>
One day he was talking on the radio ... uh on the television, and Grégoire said, "Now, please say something about the Holy Ghost. Say something about the Mother Earth." Then he started talking about the Mother Earth. And Grégoire raised his Kuṇḍalinī and they were [he laughs]. I mean, there were two, three Sahaja Yogis sitting.<br>
So, it may work out.<br>
But, you see, he's so much bound. You see, we ... he is not Spirit-oriented. He's more power-oriented, ...</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> He is man.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>... everything else but the Spirit.</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> He is man.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>Yes.</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> He is man, elected by men.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>Man elected by men. And certified by men, not by ...</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> Exactly.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>... the Divine Power, he's not divine.</i><br>
<b>Gentleman:</b> Exactly.<br>
<font color="red"><b>Śhrī Mātājī:</b></font> <i>Right.<br>
[<font color="orange">unclear</font>].<br>
And manmade things cannot be raised.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>CR3. Quote from 1982-1028 Public Program, Day 2, Basement Room, Institute of New Age, Manhattan, New York City, NY, U.S.A.:</b> <i>"Even your Pope [John Paul II], I have given him Realization for your information.<br>
I met him in Krakow [snapping the fingers:] suddenly [in 1976]. And the I met him and ah ... after all that time is was different. And the I raised his Kuṇḍalinī, It went up.<br>
Even now sometimes it comes up but he doesn't know Me. He doesn't know anything about it.<br>
How to approach him? People wrote to him [laughing:] letters, it doesn't go to him. He is cut off from people, cut off from reality, cut off from everything.<br>
Is that God, is that Christ?"</i></list-item>  
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>CR4. Quote from 1984-0802 Public Program, Faith Has to Be Based on Experience, Quaker Meeting House, 16 Queens Road, Leicester, Leicestershire, UK:</b> <i>"About this Pope John [II], I went with My Husband to Krakow. And being a-uh-uh-uh VIP or something, they asked Me, "What would You like to see?" I said, "I would like to see some good church."<br>
So they took Me to Krakow, where this fellow was the Cardinal [Karol Józef Wojtyła, Archbishop of Krakow]. And they held some sort of a mass, I was sitting there. And then I shook hands with him and had tea with him and I rose his Kuṇḍalinī. It came and went back in the same shot. [Soft laughter.]<br>
But sometimes, when he is talking sense, the Kuṇḍalinī is up there. You see, It comes up and goes down, still he's not established himself. The same fellow who became the Pope [John Paul II on 1978-1016]."</i></list-item>
</wave-list>