---
title: "1981-0408 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, Farewell Talk about an Āśhram of Sahaja Yoga, Āśhram, 10 Clarence Street, Burwood, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia"
date: 2023-09-24
display_date: 
sort_date: 1981-04-08
permalink: /events/1981-0408
tags:
  - blue @ English
  - brown @ Australia
  - crimson @ 1981
  - deeppink @ Talk
  - green @ 1981-04
  - maroon @ New South Wales
  - orange @ Sydney
  - peru @ Burwood
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="green" width="125">Transcript</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>The first thing about Āśhram one must know, that an Āśhram of Sahaja Yoga is a place for, not only worship, not only for getting Realization, but transformation, but is a nucleus, is a nucleus which triggers the happenings.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>This is an instrument through which the whole atmosphere can be changed and so this is a very, very holy place. Extremely holy, holier than holy, which is called as [a] synagogue, some people might say -- the holiest, sanctum sanctorium [sanctorum]. And this place is to be treated with that respect by the inhabitants, as well as by the people who visit this place.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Because if something goes wrong with this, then it is going to be difficult for Me also to communicate with you. It is like a Gaṇeśha Śhakti or the Power of Śhrī Gaṇeśha, is placed in āsthāna, means a place, sthāna.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So this is a very important thing one must realize about this place. So one has to be very respectful about this place. Those who live here have to sacrifice certain things that they would do in their house, but it has an advantage over other things.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Firstly, there should be no routine about Sahaja Yoga, that's very important. But that doesn't mean that there should be abandonment. You see, if you say, 'No routine,' so they go to abandonment. One extreme to another extreme. It should be in the center. And I should say, 'No abandonment,' should be put first and last, and in between is all right, 'No routine.' Because that comes faster.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Now, so one has to get up in the morning time. That's an important part of Sahaja Yoga. You all have to.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And specially in the Western countries it's the greatest crime if you wake up someone. I mean, you can do anything and murder the fellow and he won't say anything, but if you wake him up in the morning time ......</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>I used to think, 'Because the sun comes in the Western countries very late that may be the reason,' but I find Australia is also just the same.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>That means it is the influence of the ego development perhaps, that people are so tired that they can't sleep early. That's why they can't get up early.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So if I say that, 'Sleep early," so many people will say this, 'Mother has said,' so they'll start with sleeping early. That never works out. Get up early. That should be the rule. First of all get up early then automatically you will sleep early. But if you say that, 'All right, let us sleep early because we have to get up early tomorrow morning," you will never.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So the best thing is to know our habits, and better start getting up early.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>In London now the people, you know, the Londoners are the laziest in the whole world now. I mean lotus-eaters, real lotus-eaters they are. [Laughter.] Because, you see, that's how they are going on strikes. You see, nice to have a strike and sleep off, you see. Doesn't matter, they've got their dole all right.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Dole, you see, dole. You know the word dole means laziness.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So they are paid for doling, so they are not worried. They don't want to have a family responsibility, because you may have to act up to go to work. No family, no children. Just live as you like, in a pigsty</i> [Laughter.]</list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>......</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And then suddenly in the morning get up about nine o'clock, push yourself into a jean [laughter], need not brush your teeth at all. You can go to the office and use the office bathrooms for that.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Because My husband told me that, "All these people who come to my office are busy for at least half an hour in the bathrooms." I said, "Why?" "Because they said that they come and brush their teeth and all that in the bathrooms here, and they don't use anything at home."</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>That's why they don't have many bathrooms also, I believe. Sixty bedrooms and a bath. [Laughter.]</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So ... [laughs].</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And then, you see, all these English, poor things, you see, 'Under Mātājī's instructions,' I never forced. I said, "Try to get up in the morning time." It was too much.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So they started at about eight o'clock morning time, you see. Then came to seven, then to six. But some of them took the key. They got up very early, say about four o'clock. They would go in the bathroom, have a nice bath and get alerted, started meditating. And so everybody started doing gradually like that.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So you start your day very early. First thing you do is to have a nice bath in the morning time. Very good idea, so that you are absolutely alert.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Otherwise the meditation is nothing but again the lotus-eaters, you see, meditating and snoring, actually! Snoring in the meditation!</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So the best is to have a bath early in the morning. Do not expose yourself outside. Go to the meditation room and sit down.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Now, a time must be fixed for that, will be a good idea. Should we keep it four thirty [4:30 a.m.]? [Laughs at length.] Half of you would leave the Āśhram. [Laughter.] I know that, I know that!</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>You see, but for your information your Mother always gets up at four. Every day at four She's up. Then again I sleep off because everybody's sleeping, now what to do? I feel like a criminal, you see, getting up. To go and disturb all the people.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>But we must know that if we have to do really Sahaja Yoga with understanding, how important it is. We have to learn to make our body understand it also.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And if you start like this, early in the morning, have a bath and then have some tea, you really feel alert.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>This is only for the people who live in the Āśhram.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And they should try to do it, in the morning time. Any time that you feel, say six o'clock, six thirty or seven, whatever time you think, we all should assemble. Morning time.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Pūjā in the night is not so effective as in the morning time. But there should be no Pūjā or anything.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>In the morning you get up, have your bath, sit down, take some tea. Don't talk, don't talk, don't talk in the morning. Sit down. Meditate. Because that time, maybe whatever may be your timing is here, makes no difference to Me. I am with you. But that's the best time, because at that time ......, the sun comes afterwards. Before that the Divine Rays come in.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>That's how the birds get up. That's how the flowers get up. They are all awakened by that.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>And if you are sensitive, you will also feel that by getting up in the morning you will look at least ten years younger. Really. It's such a good thing to get up in the morning, and then automatically you sleep early. This is for getting up.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>For sleeping I need not tell, because that you will manage yourself.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Then in the morning time you should just meditate. In meditation try to stop your thought. Watch My photograph. Try to stop your thought. Please try to stop your thought. That's all. Meditation, first there should be no thoughts, there should be thoughtlessness, there should be no thought. Otherwise you cannot start your meditation. First stop your thoughts. Watch My photograph with open eyes. And see that you stop your thought. Once you have stopped your thought, then you go into meditation.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>The simple thing to stop your thought is Lord's Prayer. Because that's the Āgñyā state. So in the morning you remember Lord's Prayer, or Gaṇeśha's any mantra, if you know Gaṇeśha's mantra, you say in the morning time. It's just the same. Or you even say, 'I forgive.' So you can start with Gaṇeśha's mantra, say Lord's Prayer and then say, 'I forgive." It works out. Then you are in thoughtless awareness.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Now you meditate. Before that there's no meditation.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Then the thoughts are coming, 'I have to take the tea,' 'What shall I do?', 'Now what I have to do?', 'Who is this?',' and, 'Who is that?', all this will be there.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So first you become thoughtlessly aware, then the growth starts. The growth of spirituality starts after thoughtless awareness, not before that. One should know that. On [a] rational plane you cannot grow in Sahaja Yoga.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>So first thing is to establish your thoughtless awareness.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Now when you have established your thoughtless awareness, still you might feel little chakras here and there. Forget about it. Just forget about it. Now, start your surrendering, you see.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>Like your right chakra is catching, you should say, 'Mother, I surrender this to you.' See the effect. Instead of doing any, all these things, you can just say that.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>But that surrendering should not be rationalized. If you have still rationality lingering, 'Why should I say this?,' it'll never work out. If there is pure love, and purity in your heart, that's the best thing that to do is to surrender. Give all the worries to your Mother, everything to your Mother.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>But surrendering is one point [that] is very difficult in ego-oriented societies. Even talking [about] that I feel a little worried.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>But you just, if there's any thought coming into you, or any chakra coming into it, surrender. And you will see that the chakras are cleared out.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>In the morning time you do not go on putting this way, that way. Nothing. Don't move your hands too much in the morning. No need.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280">&ensp;<i>You will find most of your chakras will clear out in that meditation. Only try to put your love in your heart. Just try. </i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280">&ensp;<i>......</i></list-item>  
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="40">Sources</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>S1. 1998-0117 Australian Sahaja Newsletter, Pages 5 to 7.</b> Link to the pdf file: <a href="https://seven-teams.github.io/archives/2023/1215">Archive Post 16: Australian Sahaja Newsletter, Part 2 (1998)</a>.</list-item> 
  <list-item color="Lavender"  width="280"><b>S2. Divine Message, Version 9.4 (that improved Divine Message, Version 9.3).</a></list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="110">Chronological Updates</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="110"><b>CU1 on 2024-0204:</b> Added Transcript, S1 and S2.</list-item> 
</wave-list>