---
title: "1983-0215 Talk to Sahaja Yogis, after the Viewing of the Gandhi Movie, Hall, Alankar Cinema, Lajpat Nagar 3, New Delhi, India"
date: 2023-09-27
display_date: 
sort_date: 1983-02-15
permalink: /events/1983-0215
tags:
  - brown @ India
  - crimson @ 1983
  - deeppink @ Talk
  - green @ 1983-02
  - orange @ New Delhi
  - peru @ Gandhi Movie
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="100">Key Quote (Synopsis)</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250">[After the movie, Śhrī Mātājī speaks and comments that Ben Kingsley acted Gāndhī extremely well, but at the same time She say that Gāndhī was actually much more right sided than the film indicated.]</list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="65">Recollections</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="250"><b>R1. 2023-0922 WhatsApp message from Gauri Mehrani-Mylany:</b> "We came back [from Rishikesh to New Delhi] and watched the premier, uncut version of Gandhi with Shri Mataji. So special."</list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="250"><b>R2. 2023-0925 WhatsApp message from Maggie Keet:</b> "I think it was Delhi, I've been checking my diary and I have it down for 15 Feb. '83, which was the day we came back down from the mountains to Delhi."</list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>R3. 2023-0925 WhatsApp message from Edward Saugstad:<'b> "We saw it in the same cinema where it had premiered just 2 ½ months before <a href="https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandhi_(film)/"> <font color="DarkGreen"> Wikipedia</font></a>"</list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="200"><b>R4. 2023-0927 email from Yogi Mahajan:</b> "It was Alankar Cinema hall."</list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="250"><b>R5. 2023-0928 WhatsApp message from Gauri Mehrani-Mylany:</b> "We then went higher to Rishikesh l believe and danced in the snow. We returned the same day back to Delhi and went directly to the cinema where Shri Mataji met us all. I think we were only 45 to 50 yogis, not sure. The film was absolutely amazing, especially watching it with the Adi Shakti. We were all so cleansed and absorbed the entire film so intensely. It was the uncut version and l believe in February 1983 had only been shown in two cinemas in Delhi. It was 3 hrs 11 mins. This was the original version of the film. Shri Mataji spoke afterwards and commented that Ben Kingsley acted Gandhi extremely well, but at the same time said that Gandhi was actually much more right sided than the film indicated. It was for all of us present an amazing inspiration and we were all full of joy and gratitude that we were chosen to be with Shri Mataji on this most auspicious evening."</list-item>
</wave-list>