s---
title: "1986-1223 Pūjā, About Ego, House of Dr. Ramesh Adinath Saṃghavī, B.N-1, Sapt Shrung, Krishnanagar Housing Society, Saharanpur Road, Nasik, Maharashtra, India"
date: 2023-10-15
display_date: 
sort_date: 1986-12-23
permalink: /events/1986-1223
tags:
  - blue @ English
  - brown @ India
  - crimson @ 1986
  - deeppink @ Puja
  - green @ 1986-12
  - maroon @ Maharashtra
  - orange @ Nasik
  - peru @ Sapt Shrung
  - purple @ Shri Devi
  - red @ Local Puja
---

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="55">Key Quotes</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>Q1:</b> <i>And nose represents ego. See when people have ego, you see, their noses go like that.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>Q2:</b> <i>Is very significant. Very significant that ... this Lakṣhmaṇa resides in the stomach, we can say, on the right side. He looks after our right side which is the liver, which gives us the ego part. And it is He only who destroys it. So He is the big destroyer of our ego. Is significant, that He destroyed the ego of this woman [Śhūrpaṇakhā]. That she could [not anymore] endi... entice anyone by cutting her nose.</i></list-item>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>Q3:</b> <i>And that is the thing in a place like this where Sītā had to suffer so much, where uh-uh ... Lakṣhmaṇa had to do all these ugly things. It was a terrible thing that happened in Nasik.<br>
And then, if you get in that background, like in a drama, you see, you show a climax and then an anticlimax like that, yesterday I felt that the drama is complete now. I was really very much satisfied with what happened last night: the oneness with which we sang, the oneness we felt, and the oneness we had about ourselves.<br>
We are Universal Beings! We do not belong to any country. We do not belong to any caste, community or so-called religions. We are all universal people. We have no such bondages, which keep us separate from each other.<br>
All this love, all this affection. and all this is going to transform this horrible world into the right path, into the righteous path, into the path of benevolence.<br>
So Nasik has done something good to Me.<br>
Last time I had tears in My ... eyes and you have taken a Photograph of this Sāndra Karuṇā. And today I have got the feeling of great joy within Myself.<br>
May God bless you all!<br>
Thank you!</i></list-item> 
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="55">Comments</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond" width="280"><b>C1:</b> <i></i></list-item>
  <list-item color="Lavender" width="280"><b>C2:</b> <i></i></list-item>
</wave-list>

<br>

<wave-list>
  <list-title color="DarkSeaGreen" width="110">Chronological Updates</list-title>
  <list-item color="BlanchedAlmond"  width="280"><b>CU1 on 2025-0225:</b> Added Q1 to Q3.</list-item>
</wave-list>