---
title: 'Divine Message Blog Sample Post 1'
date: 2019-08-01
permalink: /divine/2019/08/sample-post-1
tags:
  - fun
---
Dear Sahaja Yogis and Sahaja Yoginis,  

We would like to share with you all the up-dated  
<font color="pink">Database of Transcripts/Quotes</font>  
we have been working on since Divine Message, Version 1 was posted on July 1, 2016. The pdf file  
<font color="blue">Divine Message, Version 2</font>  
is available at the link  
<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3izjZneKykscmg3cWRQR1E4dWM/view?usp=sharing">https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3izjZneKykscmg3cWRQR1E4dWM/view?usp=sharing</a>  

Please kindly share it with all our brothers and sisters. This can be done by either sharing this link or by downloading the file and then e-mailing it as an attachment.  

<font color="blue">Divine Message, Version 2:</font>  
1. has 11,732 pages (an increment of 998 pages from Version 1);  
2. contains 3,057 events (an increment of 339 events from Version 1);  
3. contains 108 figures (an increment of 38 figures from Version 1);  
4. has a size of 100 mb  

The source file of the pdf file has 46.9 mb but it contains dozens of thousand of additional side notes which do not show in the pdf file. Thus the output pdf file with all  figures removed would have a size of about 35 mb.

The hoped for "Final Version" is expected to have a number of pages <font color="pink">between 21,000 and 108,000</font>.  

We would like to thank all Sahaja Yogis and Sahaja Yoginis who have contributed in various way to the <font color="pink">Database of Transcripts/Quotes</font>.  

We received numerous suggestions: getting variants in other types of English (like British English), posting versions more frequently (than just bi-annually), having versions with smaller files or with figures in lower resolutions, creating a blog or an equivalent of it, diverse fonts, etc. All these are possible but for the next 6 months or so our top priorities will continue to be the gathering of new data and the enlargement of the database so that the tedious process of accurately titling un-dated or partially-dated audios and videos can become more effective.  

We made a lot of progress in obtaining data from many-many other databases though still we miss quite some data especially from the following eight countries: Australia, Austria, France, India, Romania, Russia, Ukraine, UK, and USA. If you would like to contribute to the <font color="pink">Database of Transcripts/Quotes</font>, please contact us.  

Jai Shri Mataji  

The Comprehensive Compilations Team  

PS. For the sake of convenience, here is the link to Divine Message, Version 1  

<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3izjZneKyksd0Vtc2p3WWpwcjA/view?usp=sharing">https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3izjZneKyksd0Vtc2p3WWpwcjA/view?usp=sharing</a>